Dear Prof Chomsky,

I'm a Taiwanese-American film director working the last 12 years in China, beginning to write a TV series to defuse the spectre of World War 3. By sheer luck of birth, I'm uniquely positioned to empathize with all sides of the China-Taiwan-US powderkeg, and I've taken your call for the Responsiblity of Intellectuals seriously. Your unwavering moral compass, lucid writing, and spectacular debating have been a source of both enlightenment and inspiration. I'd be honored if you'd ever have the time to respond or videochat about how to magnify your intellectual legacy through cinema. 

My goal is to produce a truly intercultural, multilingual "Star Trek" that deglorifies violence, glamorizes discourse, and villanizes incompetence/hypocrisy (instead of identity.) These cinematic parables present people who make mistakes, are presented with new evidence, then display responsibility, reorientation, and move towards reconciliation. Each episode showcases coooperation in spite of cultural dissimilarities, with characters hailing from all corners of our Earth with special emphasis on China, US, India, Indonesia, Pakistan, and Nigeria. Below are some themes I've been pondering that would benefit from your perspective.

Hope you are well. There's a Chinese saying: 万古流芳, meaning "a good person's name will last 10,000 years." Yours is such a reputation, Professor Chomsky. It's a privliege to witness your intellectual legacy and shared this moment in deep time with you.

best,
Van 







---

QUESTIONS for Prof Chomsky

What narrative books, films, and shows have inspired you through the years? 
What themes on human civilization do you consider under-explored?
What stereotypical tropes are harmful/dangerous to an ethical future? What tropes should be encouraged?
How best to transition a conversation from confrontation to curiosity?
Is there an ideal composition of mass media (size, ownership, profit-orientation) that maximizes truth sharing? 
If there was a core character based on you (a rigorous public intellectual working towards an ethical future), do you have any preferences for this persona (name, genetic/geographic background)? 


THEMES to Explore

Linguistic Drama
There is much drama and revelation to be found in the simple act of communicating between languages, with Wittgenstein's insight of "Die Grenzen meiner Sprache bedeuten die Grenzen meiner Welt" a succinct reminder. Most of Hollywood's "diverse" films are a thin veneer of genetic phenotypes spouting narrow American values. I fear a world where a small group of provincial cynics in LA construct a cultural hegemony that stereotypes the living cultures of Earth. What interesting drama can be found in contrasting internal systems of mind? 


Complexity
The infrastructure that enables modern life is incredibly complex. Those who seek to become engineers, doctors, lawyers, even yoga teachers require years of education and continual qualification so as not to endanger the public. Yet some countries choose their government officials & leaders by beauty pagent. If "debates" are now reality television, and if the "informed voter" is an impossibility in such a complex built environment, are we reaching the cognitive limits of representative democracy?


Genetic Diversification
As natural selection pressures are dissolved by the built environment, our species may diversify like arthopods, with fantastically different physical & mental characteristics. Candace McCullough and Sharon Duchesneau, both born deaf, intentionally chose a sperm donor who had 5 generations of deafness so to conceive a deaf child. They "don't view deafness as a disability...but a cultural identity." What reevaluations need to be had as the human species displays increasingly divergent phenotypes? How do we embrace variation as the norm?


Textbooks, instead of comic books, as source material
Incredible resources and time are invested in creating amazing fictional universes. What if those same resources were put towards education instead of entertainment? What if Netflix released a series on neuroanatomy, or HBO created a series on material science? If children collected and memorized hundreds of polypeptides instead of Pokemon?


Enjoyable Inefficiency
What activities in the future will still be meaningful to do even as technologies supercede them in efficiency? Cooking food for your family, growing backyard vegetables, camping, knitting a scarf for a relative...


Scaling Cooperation
As humans transition from small village groups to globalized civilization, what characteristics might be selected for and against? Are "Eastern" collectivist behaviors simply forshadowing the necessities of large scale socities to prioritize the safety of the many over the proclivities of the few?


Inter-parity
In the near future, synthetic sensory inputs will be indistuishable from (and may surpass) physical sensations. What opportunities and challenges will this parity between base reality and metareality create? What moral quandries will we face when anything that can be imagined can be engineered to have parity withe reality? (sexual encounters, fantasies, games)


Freedom of Expression
The dangers of misinformation have manifest clearly during this current pandemic: people are being murdered by unqualified public figures they trust. Is it ethical for governments to offload the responsibilty of censorship to private media companies? Who is responsbile for public safety? An anti-vaccine tirade by a celebrity can create the bodycount equivalent of a nuclear bomb; why should one be censored in Google searches and the other one protected speech?


Degeneracy (biology)
Defined by biologists as "the ability of structurally different elements to perform similarly under certain conditions, but perform distinct functions in other conditions." Degeneracy is observed in the natural world (genes, protein folding, neuroanatomy) and also in our constructed world (governance structures, economic paradigms, cultural norms.) Will America's evangelical obsession to "convert" other peoples to its values & systems reduce the robustness of human civilization to address climate change, bio-terror, etc?


Reconciliation
Imagine an intelligent, moral President of the US is elected. What actions should this administrative take to reconcile decades of global atrocities & interventions? The list is so long...would it even be feasible?


Synbio Ethics
Synthetic biology will enable the creation anything, from designer hallucinegenics to miniature pet giraffes. What interesting threats & opportunities might emerge? 


Paparazzi and pranksters
Many cultures don't consider the creation of humor/pseudodrama as justification for unethical behavior. Japan, UAE, Singapore, China are a few places where many "pranks" are considred criminal. China has strict moderation of paparrazzi/gossip media. With increasingly powerful digital/biological tools that can create lasting trauma, what new limits should be considered? Is it funny to "prank" a schoolmate into commiting suicide?